[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We think that we see
our beliefs in the world.
So beliefs are actually meaning.
So something happens,
we get criticized,
and we give it the meaning, oh,
I guess I'm not good enough.
And then we get
criticized again,
and we go, yeah,
I'm not good enough.
And then the third time
we give it the meaning,
the meaning becomes a belief.
Now I have a belief.
And we look at our
childhoods, and we go--
and when I ask this question
to people from, again,
every country in the world--
I work on zoom, so I
have clients in Uganda--
and I say, doesn't it seem like
you saw I'm not good enough?
And they say,
well, I did see it.
And I say, really?
Can you see my scarf?
They say yes.
Does it have a color,
shape, and location?
Yes?
Does, I'm not good enough, have
a color, shape, and location?
No.
You can't see, I'm not good.
But before we do
that, they say, well,
but I saw my father
criticize me,
and I saw I didn't
get A's in school,
and I saw my mother tell
me that I would never
amount to anything, or
all the wonderful things
that sometimes people
say to children.
I saw I wasn't important.
No, you saw your parents
busy working all the time,
not being at home, not
paying attention to you.
That's seeable.
But you cannot see a belief.
So that's how they get formed.
Now, why do they run our lives?
If you believe
that water is hot,
are you going to put
your finger in it?
If you believe, I don't
deserve good things--
I'm just going to rattle
off a lot of common beliefs
people have--
are you going to ask
for what you want?
Are you going to buy
yourself a nice new car?
You just won't.
Now, the beliefs
are unconscious.
So when I work with people,
they don't come in and go,
I have this belief.
Can I get rid of it?
And first of all, nobody cares
about getting rid of beliefs.
You care about getting
rid of patterns.
You want to get rid of the
fact that you procrastinate.
fact that you don't speak up
for yourself.
You don't ask for what you want.
You haven't asked for a raise.
You let people take
advantage of you.
Whatever it is.
So if you believe,
I'm not important,
you're going to
sit in a meeting,
and the little
voice in your head
is going to go, yeah, no,
they probably know this,
or, nobody cares
what you have to say.
And that voice comes
from your beliefs,
and so you don't speak up.
It's so simple.
If you believe, I'm going
to get what I want--
here's a really good example.
One of the most common
beliefs, James--
and it's shocking,
because evidence does not
get rid of beliefs.
I have worked with five Harvard
PhDs who had the belief,
I'm stupid.
I said, but you have
a PhD from Harvard.
Yeah, I conned my
way through Harvard.
The first time I heard
that I was like, what?
But when he was a
boy, his father,
every time he would say
something that wasn't correct,
his father would smack him
on the back of the head
and say, genius.
So again, I saw, I was stupid.
And the fact that I have
evidence to the contrary
does not change beliefs.
So these beliefs run us, even
if we know they're not true.
When I ask people, do
you have the belief--
because they tell me, I
can never get what I want,
and I'm always efforting,
and I'm always struggling,
and money comes hard,
everything comes hard.
So I'll say to them,
say this out loud,
because this is how you test
to see if you have a belief.
Say, life is hard.
And they look at me and
they go, well, life is hard.
That's not a belief.
Life is hard.
There are certain beliefs
that are so real to people.
For many years, my husband
thought that we come in,
we form beliefs, and
then we give meaning,
given the beliefs that we form.
And then we realized-- we sat
and we really looked at this--
and we realized that
meaning comes first.
So you come into the world.
You give meaning.
What does this mean?
Why are my parents struggling?
Well, I guess money's
scarce and hard to get.
Well, there they are.
They're struggling again.
Yeah, boy, it really
looks like money
is scarce and hard to get.
And at some point, you
start believing it.
Now, your beliefs will determine
the meaning you give events.
So for instance,
let's assume somebody
walks by and doesn't
speak to you.
And you have the belief,
people don't like me.
You're going to give it the
meaning that he doesn't like
you If you don't
have that belief,
and you don't have any
specific beliefs about people,
people are fine, if
somebody walks by you
and doesn't say hello, you
might give it the meaning,
oh, maybe they didn't see me, or
maybe they're having a bad day.
If you have the belief,
I'm not good enough,
and you have a
project that fails,
you're going to give it
the meaning, oh, God,
I'm a failure.
I'm a loser.
I'm terrible.
If you have the belief,
mistakes and failures
are learning opportunities,
and that's how you grow,
and your project fails, you go--
I once heard Steve Wynn speak,
the famous hotel builder.
And he said, I want to tell
you when what happens when
one of my buildings fail,
when one of my hotels
goes bankrupt, what I do.
And everybody takes
out their pens,
and they're all ready to write.
And he goes, I
build another one.
So the meaning he gave
it is, sometimes you win,
and sometimes you lose, and
you just build another one.
But it doesn't stop him.
It doesn't flatten him.
It doesn't take him out,
because of the meanings
that he gives the events.
We give meaning all day long.
Now, because the meanings
are informed by our beliefs,
ultimately you want to
get rid of your beliefs.
When I got rid of the belief--
now, this is a belief
that runs people--
what makes me good enough
is having other people
think well of me.
So I would walk away from
people going, did they like me?
I'm doing an interview.
Did I say the right thing?
Did I do the right-- am
I talking too much-- ugh.
Like that.
When I got rid of that
belief, I had the freedom
to be my authentic self.
So I'm talking to you.
All I care about
is the people who
are listening I want to give
everything I have in the time
that we have to the people.
Some people like me.
Some people won't.
Some people say, oh, she
has a New York accent,
she talks too much, whatever.
You can't please everybody.
Now, I knew that before,
but it didn't matter.
So when something
happens now, I just
don't give the same meaning.
You can get rid of
meaning in the moment.
So there's two ways I'm going
to teach you how to do that.
Let's assume somebody
doesn't speak to you.
Somebody walks by and
doesn't say hello,
and you start to get upset.
Or your boss yells at
you, and you go, oh, God.
The moment you have a negative
emotion, stop and ask yourself,
what just happened?
Let me give you a
parenting example.
What just happened?
My kid just mouthed off at me.
What meaning did I give it?
They don't respect me.
They mouthed off at me is here.
They don't respect me is here.
Meaning is never
inherent in the events.
Meaning is in your mind.
So if you get that the meaning
is separate from the event,
the emotion will go away.
Now you can handle it.
You can say to
your child, I don't
like being spoken to that way.
I don't speak to you that way.
You could say, what's up?
Are you having a bad day?
You can also look at it and
say, what just happened?
My teenager mouthed off at me.
What meaning did I give it?
They don't respect me.
What else could it mean?
It could mean they're a hormonal
teenager having a rough day.
Now, take it the last step.
What does it really mean that
they just spoke to me that way?
And another way of saying
that is, what do I know
for sure because that happened?
It isn't that it doesn't
have consequences.
I'm not saying you shouldn't
feel your emotions.
But when you want to get rid
of them, that's how you do it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]